Object-Oriented Programming
Test your knowledge

1. What are the six combinations of access modifier keywords and what do they do? 2.
What is the difference between the static, const, and readonly keywords when applied to
a type member?

public: Accessible from anywhere.
private: Accessible only within the same class.
protected: Accessible within the same class and derived classes.
internal: Accessible within the same assembly
protected internal: Accessible within the same assembly and derived classes
private protected: Accessible only within the same class and derived classes within the same assembly.

static: Belongs to the class, shared across all instances.
const: Compile-time constant, value cannot be changed after declaration
readonly: Runtime constant, can be assigned in a constructor but not modified afterward

3. What does a constructor do?
Used to initialize an object of a class when its instantiated

4. Why is the partial keyword useful?
partial classes: split class def across mul files
partial method: used inside partial class
                no runtime overhead cuz it gets removed at comp time if not implemented
                Allows declaring a method signature in one file and implementing it in another


5. What is a tuple?
groups multiple values (1,"john")

6. What does the C# record keyword do?
two records are considered equal if their properties have same values
also it makes all properties immutable

public record Person(string FirstName, string LastName);
---if we call this twice and checks it gives true if we pass same parameters

7. What does overloading and overriding mean?
a. example a multiple constructor with different params
b. overriding the method in child class for example overriding abstract methods
in the child class if we Inherit the base class

8. What is the difference between a field and a property?
field is variable
property is a field with get and set accessors for controlled access
- example giving controlled access with private filed (encapsulation)

9. How do you make a method parameter optional?
to provide default value to a function

10. What is an interface and how is it different from abstract class?
Interface - in C# 9 it cannot have fields, constructors and have only public modifiers
            best for shared behaviour, state (faster)

Abstract - have both abstract and concrete methods
           best for multiple inheritance (overhead)

11. What accessibility level are members of an interface?
public

12. True/False. Polymorphism allows derived classes to provide different implementations
of the same method.
True, (Ex: method overriding is a runtime polymorphism)

13. True/False. The override keyword is used to indicate that a method in a derived class is
providing its own implementation of a method.


14. True/False. The new keyword is used to indicate that a method in a derived class is
providing its own implementation of a method.
True.
it is used for method hiding and it same name as a method in base class
it doesnot override it instead hides the base class method
Allows Different Implementations Without Overriding


15. True/False. Abstract methods can be used in a normal (non-abstract) class. 16.
True/False. 
False. can only be in abstract class

16. Normal (non-abstract) methods can be used in an abstract class. 
yes true

17. True/False.
Derived classes can override methods that were virtual in the base class. 
true in C# we use virtual to override otherwise it throws error

18. True/False.
Derived classes can override methods that were abstract in the base class. 
True. 

19. True/False.
In a derived class, you can override a method that was neither virtual non abstract in the
base class.
False. contrasts 18 question 


20. True/False. A class that implements an interface does not have to provide an
implementation for all of the members of the interface.
False. 

it can be true too
in c#9 it might be different cuz it might have default implementation
so it is upto the derived class to implement or not

21. True/False. A class that implements an interface is allowed to have other members that
aren’t defined in the interface.
True

22. True/False. A class can have more than one base class.
no unless its an interface

23. True/False. A class can implement more than one interface

yes, multiple inheritance